1.1 Release Blog (#3086)
kestra-io/docs: content/blogs/release-1-1.md

The table below highlights the key features of this release.

| Feature | Description | Edition |
|---|---|---|
| New Filters | Redesigned UI filters with faster autocompletion and improved usability based on user feedback | All Editions |
| No-Code Dashboard Editor | Create and edit dashboards using a no-code, multi-panel editor without writing code | All Editions |
| Custom App Branding | Customize your Kestra instance with custom logos, colors, and app thumbnails in the Apps catalog | Enterprise Edition |
| Human Task | Enable manual approval steps in workflows with unpause tasks and granular user permission controls | Enterprise Edition |
| Improved Airgap Support | Better blueprint management and removal of UI components relying on external APIs for offline deployments | All Editions |

> | AI Helpers for Failures | Get AI-powered suggestions and fixes when task runs fail to quickly diagnose and resolve issues | All Editions |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Fix with AI | Get AI-powered suggestions for fixes when any of your tasks fail | All Editions |
```

## New Plugins

Kestra 1.1 includes dozens of new plugins contributed by our growing community, expanding integration capabilities across databases, APIs, messaging platforms, and AI providers.

### Data & Database Plugins
- **Liquibase** – CLI tasks to compare databases and generate diffs or change logs. Use the `Diff` task to compare schemas and track database changes in Git.
- **dlt** – New `CLI` task to run dlt (data load tool) pipelines directly from Kestra.
- **DocumentDB** – Tasks to Create, Read, Update, or Delete records in AWS DocumentDB.

### SaaS & API Integrations
- **Airtable** – Full CRUD operations with `List`, `Get`, `Create`, `Update`, and `Delete` tasks for managing Airtable records.
- **Stripe** – Plugin for payment processing and Stripe API integration.
- **Shopify** – E-commerce automation for Shopify stores.
- **Odoo** – `Query` task supporting all major Odoo operations: search_read, create, write, unlink, search, and search_count.

> - **Notion** – Manage Notion pages and databases programmatically.

Reviewer 2: Wasn't this added in 1.0?

### Cloud & Infrastructure
- **Dataform (GCP)** – `InvokeWorkflow` task to trigger Dataform workflows on BigQuery.
- **AWS CloudWatch** – Push or query metrics and trigger flows when metrics match specific conditions.
- **Apache Flink** – Stream processing integration for real-time data pipelines.

### Observability & Monitoring
- **Prometheus** – `Query`, `Push`, and `QueryTrigger` tasks for metrics collection and monitoring.
- **SNMP** – Network monitoring and device management capabilities.

### Communication & Notifications
- **Resend** – Send transactional emails with support for templates, dynamic variables, attachments, and multiple recipients.
- **Microsoft365 Outlook** – Email and calendar automation for Outlook.
- **Messenger** – Facebook Messenger notifications (plugin-notifications).

> - **LINE** – LINE messaging platform integration.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- **LINE** – LINE messaging platform integration broadly used in Japan.
```

> - **XExecution** – Send X (formerly Twitter) posts with execution information.

Reviewer 3: To stay consistent:

```suggestion
- **X** – Send X (formerly Twitter) posts with execution information.
```

- **JMS** – Java Message Service integration for enterprise messaging systems.

### Content & Media
- **YouTube** – `VideoStats`, `VideoTrigger`, and `CommentTrigger` tasks for YouTube automation.
- **LinkedIn** – Social media automation for LinkedIn.
- **Meta** – Integration for Facebook and Instagram platforms.

### Developer Tools
- **Prefect** – `CreateFlowRun` task to trigger Prefect flow runs from Kestra.
- **Algolia** – Manage search indices and records programmatically.
- **Apify** – `RunActor` and `GetDataset` tasks for web scraping automation.

### File & Data Processing
- **Markdown Serialization** – Convert between Markdown and other formats (plugin-serdes).
- **Google Drive** – `FileCreatedTrigger` to trigger flows when new files are created.
- **Google Mail** – `Get`, `List`, `Send` tasks and `MailReceivedTrigger` for Gmail integration.

### AI Model Providers

> - **dbt-fusion** – Enhanced dbt plugin now supports the dbt-fusion engine through updated CLI tasks for improved performance.

Reviewer 3: Why is dbt in the AI section?

The table below highlights the key features of this release.

| Feature | Description | Edition |
|---|---|---|
| New Filters | Redesigned UI filters with improved usability based on user feedback | All Editions |
| No-Code Dashboard Editor | Create and edit dashboards using a no-code, multi-panel editor without writing code | All Editions |
| Custom App Branding | Customize your Kestra instance with custom logos, colors, and app thumbnails in the Apps catalog | Enterprise Edition |
| Multi-Agent AI Systems | AI agents can now use other AI agents as tools, enabling sophisticated multi-agent orchestration workflows | All Editions |
| Fix with AI | Get AI-powered suggestions for fixes when any of your tasks fail | All Editions |
| Mail Trigger | Trigger workflows based on incoming emails using the new `MailReceivedTrigger` | All Editions |
| Enhanced File Detection Triggers | File detection triggers now react to both new and updated files, not just new ones | All Editions |
| Human Task | Allow paused executions to be manually approved only by specific users or groups | Enterprise Edition |

> | Improved Airgap Support | Offline deployments no longer display UI components that rely on external API calls, and blueprints remain accessible in airgapped environments. | All Editions |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| Improved Air Gap Support | Offline deployments no longer display UI components that rely on external API calls, and blueprints remain accessible in airgapped environments. | All Editions |
```

---
title: "Kestra 1.1 introduces New Filters, No-Code Dashboards, Human Tasks, AI Agent tool and Dozens of New Plugins"
description: "Kestra 1.1 delivers a polished UI with redesigned filters and no-code dashboard editor, human-in-the-loop workflows for enterprise, improved airgap support, and dozens of new community-driven plugins."
date: 2025-11-04T17:00:00
category: News & Product Updates
authors:
  - name: "Benoit Pimpaud"
    image: bpimpaud
image: /blogs/release-1-1.jpg
---

We're excited to announce Kestra 1.1, delivering a polished UI experience, dozens of community-driven plugins, and powerful enterprise features. Following user feedback, we've completely redesigned filters, introduced a no-code dashboard editor, and enhanced airgap support for offline deployments. Enterprise Edition users gain custom branding capabilities and human-in-the-loop workflows with granular permission controls. This release also brings new integrations for Liquibase, dlt, YouTube, Stripe, and many more—connecting Kestra to your entire tech stack.

The table below highlights the key features of this release.

| Feature | Description | Edition |
|---|---|---|

> | New Filters | Redesigned UI filters with faster autocompletion and improved usability based on user feedback | All Editions |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| New Filters | Redesigned UI filters with improved usability based on user feedback | All Editions |
```
technically speaking, we're removing the editor with autocompletion so can be confusing

| No-Code Dashboard Editor | Create and edit dashboards using a no-code, multi-panel editor without writing code | All Editions |
| Custom App Branding | Customize your Kestra instance with custom logos, colors, and app thumbnails in the Apps catalog | Enterprise Edition |
| Multi-Agent AI Systems | AI agents can now use other AI agents as tools, enabling sophisticated multi-agent orchestration workflows | All Editions |
| Fix with AI | Get AI-powered suggestions for fixes when any of your tasks fail | All Editions |
| Mail Trigger | Trigger workflows based on incoming emails using the new `MailReceivedTrigger` | All Editions |
| Enhanced File Detection Triggers | File detection triggers now react to both new and updated files, not just new ones | All Editions |

> | Human Task | Enable manual approval steps in workflows with unpause tasks and granular user permission controls | Enterprise Edition |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Human Task | Allow paused executions to be manually approved only by specific users or groups | Enterprise Edition |
```

- **Save frequently used filter combinations** for quick access
- **Reorder table columns** to match your workflow
- **Choose from explicit, user-friendly filter options** instead of complex text fields

The redesigned interface makes it effortless to find exactly what you're looking for—whether you're tracking specific executions, monitoring workflow states, or analyzing historical runs.

<div style="position: relative; padding-bottom: calc(48.9583% + 41px); height: 0px; width: 100%;"><iframe src="https://demo.arcade.software/rOfsRLbWk4B20tF0MUtS?embed&embed_mobile=tab&embed_desktop=inline&show_copy_link=true" title="Executions Filters | Kestra" frameborder="0" loading="lazy" webkitallowfullscreen mozallowfullscreen allowfullscreen allow="clipboard-write" style="position: absolute; top: 0; left: 0; width: 100%; height: 100%; color-scheme: light;" ></iframe></div>

## No-Code Dashboard Editor

Kestra 1.1 extends the No-Code Multi-Panel Editor to **Custom Dashboards**, bringing the same powerful visual editing experience we introduced for flows to dashboard development. You can now build and customize dashboards directly from the UI without writing YAML.

> Create data sources, visualizations, and charts visually using form-based tabs. Switch between **Dashboard Code** and **No-Code** panels to see generated YAML in real time. Just like with the multi-panel Flow Editor, you can open, reorder, and close any combination of panels (No-Code, Dashboard Code, Documentation, and Preview) to build your ideal workspace. Design monitoring dashboards, business intelligence views, or executive reports without having to start from raw YAML.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create data sources, visualizations, and charts using form-based tabs. Switch between **Dashboard Code** and **No-Code** panels to see generated YAML in real time. Just like with the multi-panel Flow Editor, you can open, reorder, and close any combination of panels (No-Code, Dashboard Code, Documentation, and Preview) to build your ideal workspace. Design monitoring dashboards, business intelligence views, or executive reports without having to start from raw YAML.
```
visually visualisations :)

    protocol: IMAP
    host: imap.gmail.com
    port: 993
    username: "user@kestra.io"
    password: "{{ secret('GOOGLE_APP_PASSWORD') }}"
    folder: INBOX
    interval: PT3S
    ssl: true
```

:: 

## Enhanced File Detection Triggers

File detection triggers in Kestra 1.1 now support reacting to both new and updated files, not just newly created ones. Previously, triggers like GCS, S3, or SFTP file watchers could only detect new files. With the new `on` property, you can configure triggers to respond to file updates, new files, or both:

- **CREATE**: Trigger on newly discovered files (default behavior)
- **UPDATE**: Trigger when existing files are modified
- **CREATE_OR_UPDATE**: Trigger on both new files and updates

You can also control state retention with `stateTtl` (e.g., `PT24H` for 24 hours, `P7D` for 7 days, `P30D` for 30 days) and customize the state key with `stateKey`.

The example below demonstrates a GCS trigger that responds to file updates:

::collapse{title="GCS File Update Trigger"}

```yaml
id: qa_gcs_trigger
namespace: kestra.qa

triggers:
  - id: gcs_watch
    type: io.kestra.plugin.gcp.gcs.Trigger
    interval: "PT5S"
    on: UPDATE

>     from: gs://test-gcs-trigger-kestra

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    from: "gs://test-gcs-trigger-kestra"
```

    action: MOVE

>     to: gs://test-gcs-trigger-kestra/archive

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    to: "gs://test-gcs-trigger-kestra/archive"
```
bad YAML otherwise

::

## Improved Airgap Support

Kestra 1.1 brings significantly improved support for offline and airgapped environments. The UI now adapts fully to run without internet connectivity: blueprints fetch from the Kestra API instead of external sources, YouTube embeds hide automatically when offline, fonts fall back to local versions, and internet-dependent sidebar features are hidden automatically. These improvements ensure Kestra runs smoothly in completely isolated environments without any degraded functionality.

## Additional Improvements

- **Flows as Dashboard Data Source** – You can now use flows as a data source for custom dashboards, allowing you to display and monitor flow metrics, status, and execution details directly within your dashboard views.
- **Sync Working Directory Control** – Added a new `syncWorkingDirectory` property for remote task runners, giving you control over whether the working directory is synchronized between remote and local environments. This ensures consistent behavior across different runner types when working with files and directories. Previously, working directories were only synced when output files or directories were explicitly specified.

> - **Agent-to-Agent Communication** – AI Agents can now call remote agents via the A2A (Agent-to-Agent) framework, enabling more complex distributed agent architectures.

Reviewer: I think you can move this point to multi-agent workflows section, it's related

### Cloud & Infrastructure
- **Dataform (GCP)** – `InvokeWorkflow` task to trigger Dataform workflows on BigQuery.
- **AWS CloudWatch** – Push or query metrics and trigger flows when metrics match specific conditions.
- **Apache Flink** – Stream processing integration for real-time data pipelines.

### Observability & Monitoring
- **Prometheus** – `Query`, `Push`, and `QueryTrigger` tasks for metrics collection and monitoring.
- **SNMP** – Network monitoring and device management capabilities.

### Communication & Notifications
- **Resend** – Send transactional emails with support for templates, dynamic variables, attachments, and multiple recipients.
- **Microsoft365 Outlook** – Email and calendar automation for Outlook.
- **Messenger** – Facebook Messenger notifications (plugin-notifications).
- **LINE** – LINE messaging platform integration.
- **XExecution** – Send X (formerly Twitter) posts with execution information.

### Content & Media
- **YouTube** – `VideoStats`, `VideoTrigger`, and `CommentTrigger` tasks for YouTube automation.
- **LinkedIn** – Social media automation for LinkedIn.
- **Meta** – Integration for Facebook and Instagram platforms.

### Developer Tools

> - **Prefect Cloud** – `CreateFlowRun` task to trigger Prefect flow runs from Kestra.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Prefect** – `CreateFlowRun` task to trigger Prefect flow runs from Kestra.
```

- **Algolia** – Manage search indices and records programmatically.
- **Apify** – `RunActor` and `GetDataset` tasks for web scraping automation.

### File & Data Processing
- **Markdown Serialization** – Convert between Markdown and other formats (plugin-serdes).
- **Google Drive** – `FileCreatedTrigger` to trigger flows when new files are created.
- **Google Mail** – `Get`, `List`, `Send` tasks and `MailReceivedTrigger` for Gmail integration.

### AI Model Providers
- **dbt-fusion** – Enhanced dbt plugin now supports the dbt-fusion engine through updated CLI tasks for improved performance.
- **Oracle Cloud Infrastructure GenAI** – Added OCI GenAI support to the AI plugin.
- **Cloudflare Workers AI** – Integration with Cloudflare's AI platform.
- **LocalAI** – Support for locally-hosted AI models.

### Messaging & Integration

> - **JMS** – Java Message Service integration for enterprise messaging systems.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

## Migration Note for Upgrading to 1.1

Version 1.1 changes how Key-Value and Secrets metadata are handled: the backend now indexes this metadata to optimize search and scalability, replacing the previous approach of fetching all stored pairs directly from storage, which was inefficient for large datasets. If you do not run the migration after upgrading to 1.1.0, the **Key-Value Store** and **Secrets** pages in the UI will appear empty (though flows and tasks will continue to work as normal; this is a UI-only issue). To restore the missing data in the UI, run the following commands once after upgrading to version 1.1.0 (or later):

```shell
/app/kestra migrate metadata-kv

> /app/kestra migrate metadata-secrets

Reviewer: ```suggestion
/app/kestra migrate metadata kv
/app/kestra migrate metadata secrets
```

```

For **Docker Compose** setups, include the commands in your startup configuration:

```yaml
kestra:
  image: registry.kestra.io/docker/kestra:latest
  commands:
    - /app/kestra migrate metadata-kv

>     - /app/kestra migrate metadata-secrets

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - /app/kestra migrate metadata kv
    - /app/kestra migrate metadata secrets
```

- Email summarization and analysis
- Customer support ticket creation
- Document processing from attachments
- Event-driven integrations triggered by specific email patterns

The example below demonstrates how to configure a Gmail inbox trigger using IMAP with AI-powered email summarization:

::collapse{title="Email Trigger with AI Summarization"}

```yaml
id: summarize_email
namespace: kestra.qa
tasks:

  - id: ai_summary
    type: io.kestra.plugin.ai.agent.AIAgent
    systemMessage: "Summarize the content of the email. The summary should include the subject , date, and a concise summary of the body. Output should be a single, clear text."
    prompt: |
      {{ trigger.subject }}
      {{ trigger.date }}
      {{ trigger.body }} 
    provider:
        modelName: gpt-5-mini
        type: io.kestra.plugin.ai.provider.OpenAI
        apiKey: "{{ secret('OPENAI_API_KEY') }}"

triggers:
  - id: gmail_inbox_trigger
    type: io.kestra.plugin.notifications.mail.RealTimeTrigger
    protocol: IMAP
    host: imap.gmail.com
    port: 993
    username: "user@kestra.io"
    password: "{{ secret('GOOGLE_APP_PASSWORD') }}"
    folder: INBOX
    interval: PT3S
    ssl: true

> ```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```yaml
id: summarize_email
namespace: kestra.qa

tasks:

  - id: ai_summary
    type: io.kestra.plugin.ai.agent.AIAgent
    systemMessage: "Summarize the content of the email. The summary should include the subject , date, and a concise summary of the body. Output should be a single, clear text."
    prompt: |
      {{ trigger.subject }}
      {{ trigger.date }}
      {{ trigger.body }} 
    provider:
        modelName: gpt-5-mini
        type: io.kestra.plugin.ai.provider.OpenAI
        apiKey: "{{ secret('OPENAI_API_KEY') }}"

triggers:
  - id: gmail_inbox_trigger
    type: io.kestra.plugin.notifications.mail.RealTimeTrigger
    protocol: IMAP
    host: imap.gmail.com
    port: 993
    username: "user@kestra.io"
    password: "{{ secret('GOOGLE_APP_PASSWORD') }}"
    folder: INBOX
    interval: PT3S
    ssl: true
```
```
